=pod

=encoding UTF-8

This is the documentation for L<< pandoc-span2cmd.pl || http://git.io/vLXwB >>.

=head1 # NAME

 pandoc-span2cmd.pl - pandoc filter for Markdown inside LaTeX commands/environments and HTML and LaTeX from the same source.

=head1 # VERSION

 0.5.4

=head1 # SYNOPSIS
 
    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --help

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --help description

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --help prereqs

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --help example

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --help manual

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --markdown \
        | pandoc --latex-engine=xelatex -o pandoc-span2cmd.pdf

    pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -t latex input.md

    pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -t html input.md

    pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -o output.pdf input.md

=head1 # DESCRIPTION

 pandoc-span2cmd.pl is a pandoc filter to help simulating Markdown inside
 LaTeX commands/environments and produce HTML and LaTeX from the same
 source.

 This is done by defining custom 'magic' attributes or classes. When
 producing HTML these become ordinary classes which can be styled with
 CSS, but when producing LaTeX they become command/environment names with
 or without extra attributes, while span contents become the (main)
 command attribute contents and div contents become either environment
 body contents, or command attribute contents.

=head1 # IF YOU ARE NEW TO PANDOC

 <http://pandoc.org>

=head1 # PREREQUISITES
 
 (IF YOU ARE NEW TO PERL OR NOT A PROGRAMMER.)

 This filter requires the perl interpreter and a number of Perl
 modules to be installed on your computer.

 If you are *not* on Windows you probably have perl
 installed already, so skip to the next section and go to
 the section below!

=head2 ## If you are on Windows and don't have perl installed.

 Download the Strawberry Perl installer and install it:

 <http://strawberryperl.com/>

=head2 ## Installing the prerequisite Perl modules.

 The filter needs to download a bunch of helper programs known as
 Perl 'modules' to function. It has some builtin functionality to
 help you with that, but you will have to make sure that you have
 the things you need installed by following the instructions at:

 <http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html>

 If you did install `cpanm` as instructed there you can now just
 type this on your commandline and hit Return:

    perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --list-prereqs | cpanm

 If you didn't install `cpanm` you will have its older cousin
 `cpan` installed. Type this on your commandline and hit Return:

        perl pandoc-span2cmd.pl --install-prereqs

 In either case you will see some information flushing by. It may
 say some things along the lines of

     Data::Rmap is up to date (0.64).

 These are not errors. They just tell you that that particular
 Perl module is already installed and up to date. In the unlikely
 case that you do run into a real error then contact the filter
 author through

 <https://github.com/bpj/bpj-pandoc-scripts/issues/new>

 and I'll do my best to help you!

=head1 # EXAMPLE

 In your Markdown file:

     \definecolor{blueborder}{rgb}{0,0,1}

     Press the button marked
     <span cmd=fcolorbox#blueborder%white>`POWER`{cmd=textsf cmd=color#blue}</span>.

     The shining blue light is a `led`{cmd=textsc}.

     **<span cmd=color#red>WARNING:</span>**
     `Always`{cmd=uuline} unplug the chord before smashing the device!

     There is no Russian version of the manual.
     `«Ничего!»`{.textrussian. lang=ru}

     <div env=greek#[variant=ancient] lang=grc>

     ---
     # Freely use markdown inside an 'environment'!
     ...

     | `Ἄφοβον`{.uline.} ὁ **θεός**,
     | `ἀνύποπτον`{.uline.} ὁ **θάνατος**
     | καὶ **τἀγαθὸν** μὲν `εὔκτητον`{.uline.},
     | τὸ δὲ **δεινὸν** `εὐεκκαρτέρητον`{.uline.}

     </div>

 Produce LaTeX:

     pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -w latex source.md


     \definecolor{blueborder}{rgb}{0,0,1}

     Press the button marked
     {\fcolorbox{blueborder}{white}{{\textsf{\color{blue}{POWER}}}}}.

     The shining blue light is a {\textsc{led}}.

     \textbf{{\color{red}{WARNING:}}} {\uuline{Always}} unplug the chord
     before smashing the device!

     There is no Russian version of the manual. {\textrussian{«Ничего!»}}

     \begin{greek}[variant=ancient]

     {\uline{Ἄφοβον}} ὁ \textbf{θεός},\\{\uline{ἀνύποπτον}} ὁ
     \textbf{θάνατος}\\καὶ \textbf{τἀγαθὸν} μὲν {\uline{εὔκτητον}},\\τὸ δὲ
     \textbf{δεινὸν} {\uline{εὐεκκαρτέρητον}}

     \end{greek}

 Produce HTML (example reformatted for readability):

     pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -w html source.md


     <p>
         Press the button marked <span
             class="fcolorbox-blueborder_white"><span
             class="textsf color-blue">POWER</span></span>.
     </p>
     <p>
         The shining blue light is a <span class="textsc">led</span>.
     </p>
     <p>
         <strong><span class="color-red">WARNING:</span></strong>
         <span class="uuline">Always</span> unplug the chord before
         smashing the device!
     </p>
     <p>
         There is no Russian version of the manual.
         <span class= "textrussian" lang="ru">«Ничего!»</span>
     </p>
     <div class="greek" lang="grc">
     <p>
         <span class="uline">Ἄφοβον</span> ὁ <strong>θεός</strong>,<br>
         <span class="uline">ἀνύποπτον</span> ὁ <strong>θάνατος</strong><br>
         καὶ <strong>τἀγαθὸν</strong> μὲν <span class="uline">εὔκτητον</span>,<br>
         τὸ δὲ <strong>δεινὸν</strong> <span class="uline">εὐεκκαρτέρητον</span>
     </p>
     </div>

=head1 # NORMAL USAGE

 There are three ways to mark out a span, div, code or codeblock element
 for special treatment by this filter:

 1. The special span or code attribute _cmd_ (the span body may contain
 Markdown):

     Markdown source:

         <span cmd=textsf>**bold sans text**</span>

     LaTeX output:

         {\textsf{\textbf{sans text}}}

     HTML output:

         <span class="textsf"><strong>bold sans text</strong></span>

 2. The special div or codeblock attributes _env_ or _cmd_ (the
 div body may contain Markdown):

     Markdown source:

         <div env=center>
         <div cmd="colorbox#yellow">
         This is a *centered* textbox with *yellow* background
         </div>
         </div>

     LaTeX output:

         \begin{center}

         \colorbox{yellow}{

         This is a \emph{centered} textbox with \emph{yellow} background

         }

         \end{center}

     HTML output:

         <div class="center">
         <div class="colorbox-yellow">
         <p>This is a <em>centered</em> textbox with <em>yellow</em> background</p>
         </div>
         </div>

 3. Class names consisting of letters followed by a period ('code' becomes
 ordinary text, but no Markdown inside!):

     Markdown source:

         `sans text`{.textsf.}

         ``` {.center.}
         Centered text.
         ```

     LaTeX output:

         {\textsf{sans text}}

         \begin{center}

         Centered text.

         \end{center}

     HTML output:

         <p><span class="textsf">sans text</span></p>
         <div class="center">
         <p>Centered text</p>
         </div>

     - **Notes:**
         1. You can use e.g.
         `<span class="textsc.">LaTe but it doesn't give the nice 'dot-delimited' look you get with code attributes, and is more to type than`cmd=textsc\`,
         so no gain!
         2. You can use _cmd_ or _env_ attributes with 'code'. This is
         useful as it allows you to specify extra arguments or turning
         'codeblocks' into commands.
         3. The entire 'code' or 'codeblock' text becomes a single string element
         wrapped in a span element or a paragraph and a div element, so you
         cannot use any Markdown, LaTeX or HTML markup inside the 'code's text.
         This means that this form is mainly useful for single words or phrases,
         allowing you to avoid the extra noise introduced by HTML-like start and
         end tags. If you are only going to produce LaTeX this gives you no
         advantage over embedded raw LaTeX but it allows LaTeX commands to double
         as HTML classes.
         4. Note that while a 'dotted' class on inline 'code' is equivalent to a
         span with a _cmd_ attribute, a 'dotted' class on a 'codeblock' is
         equivalent to a div with an _env_ attribute.

 You may have more than one _cmd_/_env_ attribute, or more than
 one 'dotted' class at the same time. They will become several nested
 LaTeX commands or several HTML classes:

     <span cmd=textsc cmd=textsf>sans small caps</span>

     {\textsc{\textsf{sans small caps}}}

     <span class="textsc textsf">sans small caps</span>

=head3 ### The 'syntax' of _cmd_ and _env_ attribute values

=head3 ### The clean way

 It is probably cleanest to let the _cmd_ and _env_ attributes
 be a single word (which must be a valid LaTeX command name, and so must
 contain only letters, although XeLaTeX allows you to use any Unicode
 character with General Category _L_!),

     <span cmd=blueWhiteBox>bordered blue text on white</span>

 and then define that command or environment in a LaTeX file

 which you include with pandoc's `-H` option:

     pandoc -F pandoc-span2cmd.pl -w latex -H defs.ltx source.md

=head3 ### The messy way

 The filter also supports overloading the _cmd_ or _env_
 attribute value with information on extra arguments to insert before and
 after the 'main' argument with the span or div contents, so that you in
 many cases won't need to write any LaTeX command definitions. You will
 always need to write your CSS stylesheet, however!

 The value of the _cmd_ attribute can have between one and three
 main parts, separated by `#` characters:

     cmd="COMMAND#{ARGS}{BEFORE}{ELEMENT}{BODY}#{ARGS}{AFTER}{ELEMENT}{BODY}"

 or

     cmd="COMMAND#ARGS%BEFORE%ELEMENT%BODY#ARGS%AFTER%ELEMENT%BODY"

 In both forms only the first part (`COMMAND`) is required. The
 other two parts may be missing or empty, but if there are to be extra
 arguments after the span/div body but not before, the second part must
 of course be present but empty.

 What distinguishes the first form from the second is the presence of one
 or more of the characters `{ } [ ]` in the second or third part

 When producing LaTeX both forms become

     \COMMAND{ARGS}{BEFORE}{ELEMENT}{BODY}{...}{ARGS}{AFTER}{ELEMENT}{BODY}

 where `...` marks the spot where the LaTeX which pandoc produces
 from the span/div contents will be. In the second form any `%`
 characters in the second or third part will be replaced with the
 character pair `}{` making each subpart a separate argument.

 When producing HTML the second form is turned into an HTML class so that
 all `#` characters will be replaced with a hyphen (`-`) and
 all percent characters will be replaced with an underscore

     class="COMMAND-ARGS_BEFORE_ELEMENT_BODY-ARGS_AFTER_ELEMENT_BODY"

 If the needed extra LaTeX arguments are any more complicated than this,
 e.g. there is an argument delimited by square brackets, or the result
 will not be a valid HTML class, then you have to use the first form and
 specify your HTML classes and your extra LaTeX arguments explicitly:

     <span cmd="colorbox#[rgb]{1,1,0}" class=yellowbox>text on yellow background</span>

     {\colorbox[rgb]{1,1,0}{text on yellow background}}

     <span class="yellowbox colorbox">text on yellow background</span>

 The _env_ attribute is treated similarly, except that it doesn't
 support any after-arguments; a second `#` character will be treated
 as if it were a `%` character.

     <div env="minipage#10cm">
     Text in minipage.
     </div>

     \begin{minipage}{10cm}

     Text in minipage.

     \end{minipage}

     <div class="minipage-10cm">
     <p>Text in minipage.</p>
     </div>

=head1 # DEFINING CSS RULES (OR LATEX COMMANDS)

 For producing HTML you will have to define CSS rules for the classes
 derived from _cmd_ and _env_ attributes. Most of the time this
 means that you will have classes with the same names as LaTeX commands.
 This is not a bad thing if those who read your HTML know LaTeX, at least
 as long as yore CSS assigns reasonable properties to those classes! CSS
 rules corresponding to simple commands can be comparably simple:

     span.textsf { font-family: sans-serif; }
     span.textsc { font-variant: small-caps; }
     div.center  { text-align: center; }
     span.uline  { text-decoration: underline; } /* \usepackage[normalem]{ulem} */
     div.fbox    { border: 1px solid black }

 Commands which take extra arguments need one selector per
 command+arguments combo:

     div.fcolorbox-red_yellow {    /* \usepackage{xcolor} */
         border: 1px solid red; background-color: yellow; }

 (Note that this example wouldn't have worked if `red` and
 `yellow` had been separate classes!)

 Sometimes you can simplify your Markdown by defining both CSS rules and
 LaTeX commands:

     <div cmd="wmbox#10cm">
     !!LIPSUM!!
     </div>

     div.wmbox-10cm { width: 10cm; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; }

     \newcommand{\wmbox}[2]{\makebox[#1][c]{#2}}

 There are also cases where the best thing to do is to give HTML
 attributes _and_ LaTeX commands or environments side by side, as
 with the `lang` attributes and \[polyglossia\]\[\]
 commands/environments example in the [EXAMPLE](#example).

     :lang(grc) { font-family: "GFS Neohellenic" }
     :lang(ru)  { font-style: italic }

     % See polyglossia and fontspec packages!
     \newfontfamily\greekfont{GFS Neohellenic}[Script=Greek]
     \newfontface\russianfont{Charis SIL Italic}[Script=Cyrillic] % <mainfont> Italic!

=head1 # POWER USAGE (FOR PERL HACKERS)

 TODO!

 (Some code is in place but there is an API change underway!)

=head1 #SUPPORT

 <https://github.com/bpj/bpj-pandoc-scripts/issues>

=head1 # AUTHOR

 Benct Philip Jonsson <bpjonsson@gmail.com>

=head1 # COPYRIGHT

 Copyright 2015- Benct Philip Jonsson

=head1 # LICENSE

 This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
 under the same terms as Perl itself.

