=head1 batch-pandoc.pl

batch-pandoc.pl is a perl script to batch-convert files with a certain
extension in a directory and its descendants with pandoc, creating a
mirror directory structure with converted files.



=head1 pandoc-class2latex.pl

Documentation for pandoc-class2latex.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-code2raw.pl

Documentation for pandoc-code2raw.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-dl2ul.pl

No documentation yet!



=head1 pandoc-extract-noattr-div-span.pl

Documentation for pandoc-extract-noattr-div-span.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-keep-div.pl

Documentation for pandoc-keep-div.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-list-checkbox.pl

Documentation for pandoc-list-checkbox.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-local-quotes.pl

Documentation for pandoc-local-quotes.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-mintedcode.pl

This is a quick and dirty L<<< I<< pandoc >>|http://pandoc.org >>>
filter which allows you to highlight code in LaTeX output with
L<<< I<< minted >>|https://www.ctan.org/pkg/minted >>> 2.0 rather than
with Pandoc's builtin highlighting mechanism. This is useful because you
get more sophisticated highlighting and formatting of code, and you can
highlight different pieces of code differently, e.g. based on code
language.



=head1 pandoc-no-header-links.pl

Documentation for pandoc-no-header-links.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-no-header-span-ids.pl

Documentation for pandoc-no-header-span-ids.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-plain2email.pl

No documentation yet!



=head1 pandoc-plain2pod.pl

pandoc-plain2pod.pl is a pandoc filter to munge plain output into Perl
POD documentation, a poor man's custom writer implemented as a filter if
you will.



=head1 pandoc-span2cmd.pl

Documentation for pandoc-span2cmd.pl still to be written

=head1 pandoc-texlogo.pl

pandoc-texlogo.pl is a L<< pandoc|http://pandoc.org/ >> filter to help
display the logos for TeX, LaTeX etc. correctly in in LaTeX (including
when generating PDF!) and ConTeXt output while also rendering them
sensibly in other formats.



=head1 pandoc-zap-images.pl

Documentation for pandoc-zap-images.pl still to be written