=encoding UTF-8

This is the documentation for L<< pandoc-tabularize.pl | http://git.io/vqWWd >>.

=head1 NAME

pandoc-tabularize.pl - pandoc filter to use tabular instead of longtable
in LaTeX

=head1 VERSION

0.001

Date: 2015-07-06

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    pandoc -t latex -F pandoc-tabularize.pl [-M tabularize_all=true] [OPTIONS] FILE_NAME ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<< pandoc-tabularize.pl >> is a pandoc filter to use the C<< tabular >>
environment instead of the C<< longtable >> package in LaTeX output.
This is especially useful if you want to use C<< twocolumn >> mode,
which doesn't work with C<< longtable >>.

There are two ways to get a C<< tabular >> environment -- possibly
wrapped in a C<< table >> environment -- instead of a C<< longtable >>:

=over

=item 1.

Put a key-value pair C<< tabularize_all: true >> in your metadata block,
(or pass C<< -M tabularize_all=true >> on the commandline).

This will turn I<< all >> tables into C<< tabularize >> environments,
and if they have a caption also wrap them in a C<< table >> environment.

=item 2.

Wrap the table in a C<< <div> >> with a class C<< tabularize >>.

If you also add a class C<< float >> the C<< tabularize >> environment
will be wrapped in a C<< table* >> environment and hence become a float.

If you add a class like C<< pos:t >> or C<< pos:p >> there will also be
a C<< table* >> environment, with whatever came after C<< pos: >> in the
class name as the optional argument to that environment.

Any C<< id >> on the C<< <div> >> will also be added as a
C<< \label{tab:ID} >>. This is probably actually unnecessary since
pandoc will add a generally much more useful
C<< \hyperdef{}{ID}{\label{ID}} >> above the C<< <div> >>, but it's
there in case you find some use for it

=back

Note that the content of the div should be a normal Pandoc Markdown
table (of any type!) with whatever Markdown markup normally works in a
table.

=head2 Example

In your Markdown document:

    ---
    title: Test of twocolumn table hack filter
    classoption: twocolumn
    tabularize_all: true
    ...

    <div id=firsttable class=tabularize>

    Quia Iusto          Et Quisquam         Est Expedita
    ------------------  ------------------  -------------------
    Facilis Aut         Et Aut              *Veritatis* Eveniet
    Blanditiis Sit      Eligendi Provident  Sunt Ducimus

    : This should be a non-floating tabularize

    </div>

    Minus Amet           Pariatur Soluta     Voluptate Consectetur
    ------------------  ------------------  ----------------------
    Eos Possimus        A Quasi             Vel Autem
    Est Magni           Assumenda Volupta   Id Laboriosam

    : This also, with `tabularize_all: true`

    <div class="tabularize float">

    -------------------------------------------------------
    Quia Ut             Sint Ratione        Voluptas Magnam
    ------------------  ------------------  ---------------
    Blanditiis Enim     Animi Ut            Eaque Eum
    Quidem Aut          Et Vitae            Nesciunt Voluptatem

    Voluptatem Illo     Iste Cupiditate     Explicabo Vel
    Est [Dolorem][]     Consequuntur Eaque  In Impedit
    -------------------------------------------------------

    : This should be a floating table*

    </div>

    <div class="tabularize pos:b">

    Expedita Ut     Fugit Numquam       Quas Quia
    --------------  ------------------  ---------
    Nisi Aperiam    Quasi Unde  In Quis
    Repellat Tenet  Est Sit Facere Dolore

    : this floats to the bottom of the page

    </div>

=head1 PREREQUISITES

L<< pandoc|http://pandoc.org >>

L<< perl|https://www.perl.org/get.html >>

=head2 CPAN prerequisites

L<< Data::Rmap|Data::Rmap >>

L<< JSON::MaybeXS|JSON::MaybeXS >>

L<< List::AllUtils~0.09|List::AllUtils >>

=head1 NEW TO PERL?

Get perl:
L<< https://www.perl.org/get.html|https://www.perl.org/get.html >>

How to install modules:
L<< http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html|http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html >>

=head1 AUTHOR

Benct Philip Jonsson E<lt>bpjonsson@gmail.comE<gt>,
L<< https://github.com/bpj|https://github.com/bpj >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015- Benct Philip Jonsson

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

